# Galaxy Refresher Course

A 3h seminar on the CPT's Galaxy, updates, and activities to enhance learning.

## Broad Outline

- Evaluation of Skills (beforehand)
- Tools
    - JBrowse in Galaxy
    - (Preview of) Apollo<->Galaxy integration
    - Various new tools like the restriction digest plotter, structural
      prediction tools that will be added
- Galaxy Features
    - Galaxy Interactive Environments
    - DatasetCollections
- Meta
    - How and where to seek help with bioinformatics projects

## Skill Evaluation

This needs to be sent out ahead of time. A quick questionnaire/quiz on Galaxy and Bioinformatics Applications

Question Type | Question Content
------------- | ---------------------------
MC            | How do you download datasets (include fa-download icon)
Open Ended    | What do you do when a tool crashes?
Open Ended    | How do you download all the files from your history
MC            | Where do you hear about Galaxy updates / CPT Galaxy News
MC            | How often do you use Galaxy
MC            | How do you re-run a tool if you want to change something
Open Ended    | How do you manage historise? Projects?
Open Ended    | How do you take notes on your datasets?
MC            | Do you use history tags? Dataset Tags?
Open Ended    | How do you build a workflow to share with others?
MC            | How comfortable do you feel with Galaxy?
Open Ended    | You're starting a new project, how do you figure out what analyses you need to do?

More question ideas:

- datatypes: sam/bam, wig/bigwig, gff3, gbk, html, fastq, fasta
- what tools might you use to assemble a genome? annotate a genome? blast?
- new data is given to you, how do you locate resources on how to process it?


## New, Exciting Tools!

### JBrowse

Cross link with 464 JBrowse docs

### Apollo

How to use for genome annotation/viewing

### Minor Tools of Note

- restriction digest
- fasta binning
- codon optimisation
- anything else released this year?

- reprof
- rnafold

## Galaxy Features

- Dataset Collections
- Interactive Environments
- 
