% Intro
% 2013-12-03
% Eric Rasche

# Notes

For all of the exercises you do today, the paths given will be relative to your "package root", this is (usually) the folder named "files" in every exercise folder. This is the folder in which you will execute the command to build your package. In all of the paths below it is denoted `$PKG_ROOT/`

# My First Package

In this exercise, you will build a simple "Hello World" perl script package

# Important Files

You will need to create this first file, everything else has been done for you.

`$PKG_ROOT/src/any/usr/bin/cpt-build-tut-01v1`

:   Our initial perl script which simply prints "Hello, World" and exits

`$PKG_ROOT/debian/rules`

:   This file is a makefile which simply invokes `debhelper`. Debhelper then takes care of most of the work. The rules file can be used to have specific behaviour on different commands (build/install/reconfigure/etc). For simple packages, I recommend leaving this file as-is.

`$PKG_ROOT/Makefile`

:   Mostly no-op make file. The only important command is "install" which copies files into a supplied destination directory. Not that there will be exported variables you can access (if need be). In C/C++ programmes, the build instructions would be functional, and the install instructions might be more complicated. This file would usually be generated by a `./configure`, where appropriate. `dh` will take care of running `./configure` and `make`ing programmes upon build for you.

# Exercise

```bash
editor $PKG_ROOT/src/any/usr/bin/cpt-build-tut-01v1
chmod +x $PKG_ROOT/src/any/usr/bin/cpt-build-tut-01v1
```

## Building

```bash
cd $PKG_ROOT
dpkg-buildpackage
```

## Instalation and Verification

Assuming you were still in `$PKG_ROOT`

```bash
cd ../
sudo dpkg -i cpt-build-tut-01_1.0.0_all.deb
cpt-build-tut-01v1
```
